Add design of data structure (#100)
SW709E19/Report: report/PartDesign/ChapterDataStructure/DataStructure.tex

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{PartDesign/ChapterDataStructure/images/datastructure.png}
	\caption{Overview of the data structure.}
	\label{fig:datastructure}
\end{figure}

The data structure is oriented around samples. 
A sample represents a collection of measurements. 
Each measurement has a time offset since sample\_start measured in microseconds.
The reason for storing time offsets instead of absolute timestamps is that some programming languages and encodings of timestamps only supports milliseconds precision.
This would limit the number of unique timestamps per second to a thousand corresponding to a maximum sample rate of 1 Hz. 
Measurements can contains different properties depending on the type of sensor. 
Here, acceleration\_x, acceleration\_y, and acceleration\_z are just examples. 
Each sample is collected by a sensor device and sent to the backend via a gateway. 
Samples are collected based on a specific configuration. 
The sample is collected at a location for a specific customer which is described in the description. 
Both configuration and description can be extended with additional properties if needed.

> Each sample contains six timestamps describing when: sampling started, sample was sent, gateway received sample, gateway sent sample, backend received sample, and backend stored sample.

Reviewer: Keep it as timestamp since this is design and not implementation

> Each sample contains six timestamps describing when: sampling started, sample was sent, gateway received sample, gateway sent sample, backend received sample, and backend stored sample.

Reviewer: Instead of sampling started/sent, maybe device start/end. Remember figure aswell, if changed.

> Each sample contains six timestamps describing when: sampling started, sample was sent, gateway received sample, gateway sent sample, backend received sample, and backend stored sample.

Reviewer: Are backend received and stored not the same timestamp.

Reviewer: What about the gateway received and sent?

The reason for storing all these timestamps is that it can be used to identify how long time each component spent on processing the sample which can be used to identify potential bottlenecks. 
Another reason for storing timestamps from different components is that the clock on each component might not be in sync with each other. 
For instance, if the clock of the sensor device is out of sync then the timestamps from the gateway can be used to estimate when the sample was collected by the sensor device. 

\section{Encoding}
\label{sec:encoding}
The data structure is encoded and stored as JSON, which is a common format supported by many programming languages. 
Samples are stored as JSON documents due to the choice of non-relational databases in favour of relational databases. 
An example document is shown in \autoref{lst:datastructure}. 

> \begin{minipage}{\textwidth}

Reviewer: This does not compile well in my editior. Check formatting

\begin{lstlisting}[label={lst:datastructure}, caption={Example JSON document representing a sample.}]
{
  "device_id": "example-device",
  "gateway_id": "example-gateway",
  "sample_start": "2019-11-28T22:25:10.420Z",
  "sample_sent": "2019-11-28T22:25:15.434Z",
  "gateway_received": "2019-11-28T22:25:15.532Z",
  "gateway_sent": "2019-11-28T22:25:15.545Z",
  "backend_received": "2019-11-28T22:25:15.642Z",
  "backend_stored": "2019-11-28T22:25:16.124Z",
  "measurements": [
    {
      "time": 0,
      "acceleration_x": 1.0254,
      "acceleration_y": -0.0254,
      "acceleration_z": 0.3641

>     },

Reviewer: We should be able to handle multiple sensor types. (At least per design)
Maybe add it as metadata or config in the implementation.

> \chapter{Data Structure}\label{cha:datastructure}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\section{Data Structure}\label{cha:datastructure}
```

> This chapter describes the data in the system and how it will be structured and encoded in order to be extracted from deployed devices. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes the data in the system and how it will be structured and encoded in order to be extracted from the deployed devices. 
```

> \section{Data Model}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\subsection{Data Model}
```

In order to define how the data should be structured, it must first be determined what data is going to be collected.

> A class diagram can be seen in \autoref{fig:datastructure} containing the relevant attributes that should be collected from the factories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The class diagram seen in~\autoref{fig:datastructure} contains the relevant attributes that should be collected from the factories.
```

	\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{PartDesign/ChapterDataStructure/images/datastructure.png}
	\caption{A UML class diagram showing the relevant classes and their attributes.}
	\label{fig:datastructure}
\end{figure}

A \textbf{Factory} has an attribute for customer name and aggregates a number of machines and gateways.
\textbf{Machines} each has a name which is used to identify where in a factory a given machine is located.
\textbf{Gateways} can be placed anywhere in a factory and is therefore not aggregated by a single machine.
The center of the class diagram is the \textbf{Device} which only contains the attribute id, but aggregates a number of sensors. 
Devices also has an association to a configuration.
A \textbf{Configuration} contains the attributes that change the behavior of devices e.g sample\_rate.
The \textbf{Sensor} class has a type which determines what kind of data the sensor collects and therefore also the data format of a given measurement.
\textbf{Measurements} has a timestamp that indicates when the measurement was made.
Measurements contains additional properties depending on the type of sensor. 
In \autoref{fig:datastructure}, acceleration\_x is an example.

> \section{Encoding}\label{sec:encoding}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\subsection{Encoding}\label{sec:encoding}
```

> The data structure is encoded as samples. A sample represents collections of measurements associated to the same sensor, device, configuration, and gateway. Samples are stored as JSON, which is a common format supported by many programming languages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data structure is encoded as samples.
A sample represents a collection of measurements associated to the same sensor, device, configuration, and gateway.
Samples are stored as JSON, which is a common format supported by many programming languages. 
```

Samples are stored as JSON documents due to the choice of non-relational databases in favour of relational databases. 

> An example document is shown in \autoref{lst:datastructure}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example document can be seen in~\autoref{lst:datastructure}. 
```

\textbf{Machines} each has a name which is used to identify where in a factory a given machine is located.
\textbf{Gateways} can be placed anywhere in a factory and is therefore not aggregated by a single machine.
The centre of the class diagram is the \textbf{Device} which only contains the attribute id, but aggregates a number of sensors. 
Devices also has an association to a configuration.
A \textbf{Configuration} contains the attributes that change the behavior of devices e.g sample\_rate.
The \textbf{Sensor} class has a type which determines what kind of data the sensor collects and therefore also the data format of a given measurement.
\textbf{Measurements} has a timestamp that indicates when the measurement was made.
Measurements contains additional properties depending on the type of sensor. 
In \autoref{fig:datastructure}, acceleration\_x is an example.

\subsection{Encoding}\label{sec:encoding}
The data structure is encoded as samples.
A sample represents a collection of measurements associated to the same sensor, device, configuration, and gateway.
Samples are stored as JSON, which is a common format supported by many programming languages. 

> Samples are stored as JSON documents due to the choice of non-relational databases in favour of relational databases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Jeg tænker ikke det er nødvendigt at snakke om valg af database her.
